
								CASE STUDY - HR ANALYTICS
							     Exploratory & Predictive Analytics

BUSINESS CONTEXT:

Human Resources are critical resources of any organization. Organizations spend huge amount of time and money to hire and nurture their employees. It
is a huge loss for companies if employees leave, especially the key resources.So if HR can predict weather employees are at risk for leaving the company, it
will allow them to identify the attrition risks and help understand and provide necessary support to retain those employees or do preventive hiring to
minimize the impact to the organization. Predictive retention modeling allows organizations to identify high-risk employees, build profiles of those most likely to leave or stay, and understand how risk is distributed throughout the organization. Several innovative large organizations have started building  these kind of HR analytics with great success in the past years e.g. Google, HP. Net to the traditional HRIS dashboard with descriptive turnover information, we see more and more companies adding these predictive turnover information to their standard reporting. An overview of the 7 benefits, thanks to SAS for this information:

Benifits from Predictive Modeling in HR:
	1. Recognize the strengths and vulnerabilities of the workforce and predict
	vacancies and leadership needs.
	2. Track and analyze critical skills, and predict which skills will be lost and when
	by predicting turnover.
	3. Measure turnover, understand its causes and design programs to control it
	to reduce vacancy costs – both financial and productivity – to avoid their
	devastating effects on business performance.
	4. Assess risk on an organization-wide level by integrating workforce and
	relevant business and third-party data for comprehensive risk analysis.
	5. Build weighted risk factors into strategic human capital management plans
	and reduce risk by understanding workforce supply-and-demand patterns.
	6. Understand and mitigate risk linked to seasonal absences, resignation trends
	or length of employment to prevent being blindsided by loss of critical
	workers, skills or leadership.
	7. Measure, monitor and predict the effect of risk factors over time and
	prevent organizational risk by devising contingency plans based on insight and foresight.

DATA AVAILABLE:

	 HR_comma_sep.csv

Data Description:

	satisfaction_level: Employee satisfaction level
	last_evaluation: Last evaluation
	number_project: Number of projects
	average_montly_hours: Average monthly hours
	time_spend_company: Time spent at the company
	Work_accident: Whether they have had a work accident
	promotion_last_5years: Whether they have had a promotion in the last 5 years
	department: Department
	salary: Salary
	left: Whether the employee has left